[IMP] inventory: update inventory adjustments (#4435)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/inventory_and_mrp/inventory/management/inventory_adjustments/count_products.rst

In any warehouse management system, the recorded inventory counts in the database might not always
match the actual inventory counts in the warehouse. The discrepancy between the two counts can be
due to damages, human errors, theft, or other factors. As such, inventory adjustments must be made
to reconcile the differences, and ensure that the recorded counts in the database match the actual
counts in the warehouse.

> View inventory adjustments page
> ===============================

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inventory adjustments page
==========================
```
slightly more concise heading

To view the :guilabel:`Inventory Adjustments` page, navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory app -->
Operations --> Inventory Adjustments`.

On the :guilabel:`Inventory Adjustments` page, all products that are currently in stock are listed,
with each product line containing the following information:

.. image:: count_products/count-products-inventory-adjustments-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Inventory adjustments page.

- :guilabel:`Location`: the specific location in the warheouse where a product is stored.
- :guilabel:`Product`: the product whose quantity is listed on the inventory adjustment line.
- :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`: the specific tracking identifier assigned to the specific product
  listed. It can contain letters, numbers, or a combination of both.

.. note::
   If a specific product has a quantity of more than `1.00` in stock, and more than one serial

>    number or lot number assigned to it, each uniquely-identified product will display on its own

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   number (or lot number) assigned to it, each uniquely-identified product is displayed on its own
```

> .. note::
>    If a specific product has a quantity of more than `1.00` in stock, and more than one serial
>    number (or lot number) assigned to it, each uniquely-identified product is displayed on its own
>    product line with its own lot/serial number, displayed under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`
>    column.

Reviewer 2: If this note admonition is specific to the bullet point above, please indent it to be aligned with the text of the bullet.
```suggestion
  .. note::
     If a specific product has a quantity of more than `1.00` in stock, and more than one serial
     number (or lot number) assigned to it, each uniquely-identified product is displayed on its own
     product line with its own lot/serial number, displayed under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`
     column.
```

- :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`: the quantity of the product currently recorded in the database.
- :guilabel:`UoM`: the *unit of measure* in which the product is measured. Unless otherwise

>   specified (i.e., in **Pounds** or **Ounces**), the default :abbr:`UoM (unit of measure)` is
>   **Units**.

Reviewer 2: These are field values no? So a :guilabel: would be appropriate rather than bold 🙂
```suggestion
  specified (i.e., in :guilabel:`Pounds` or :guilabel:`Ounces`), the default :abbr:`UoM (unit of
  measure)` is :guilabel:`Units`.
```

> - :guilabel:`UoM`: the *unit of measure* the product is measured in. Unless otherwise specified
>   (i.e., in **pounds** or **ounces**), the default :abbr:`UoM (unit of measure)` will be **Units**.
> - :guilabel:`Counted Quantity`: the real quantity counted during an inventory count. This field will
>   be blank by default, but can be changed depending on if it matches the :guilabel:`On Hand
>   Quantity` or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`UoM`: the *unit of measure* in which the product is measured. Unless otherwise
  specified (i.e. in **Pounds** or **Ounces**), the default :abbr:`UoM (unit of measure)` is
  **Units**.
- :guilabel:`Counted Quantity`: the real quantity counted during an inventory count. This field is
  left blank by default, but can be changed, depending on if it matches the :guilabel:`On Hand
  Quantity` or not.
```

- :guilabel:`Difference`: the difference between the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity` and

>   :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` once an inventory adjustment has been made.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  :guilabel:`Counted Quantity`, once an inventory adjustment is made.
```

  :guilabel:`Counted Quantity`, once an inventory adjustment is made.
- :guilabel:`Scheduled Date`: the date at which a count should be made. If not otherwise specified,
  this date will default to the 31st of December of the current year.
- :guilabel:`User`: the person assigned to the count in the database. This can either be the person
  physically counting the inventory, or applying the count in the database.

> - :guilabel:`Product Category`: the category assigned internally to a specific product. Unless
>   otherwise specified (i.e., as **Consumable** or **Rental**), the default *product category* is set
>   to *All*.

Reviewer 2: Same with these field values, they receive :guilabel:s. Also, when referring to the field within it's definition we need to italicize and capitalize.
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Product Category`: the category assigned internally to a specific product. Unless
  otherwise specified (i.e., as :guilabel:`Consumable` or :guilabel:`Rental`), the default *Product
  Category* is set to :guilabel:`All`.
```

>   otherwise specified (i.e., as **Consumable** or **Rental**), the default *product category* will
>   be *All*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  otherwise specified (i.e. as **Consumable** or **Rental**), the default :guilabel:`Product
  Category` is set to *All*.
```

  based on any outstanding/uncompleted sales orders, purchase orders, or manufacturing orders that
  might change the available quantity once fulfilled.
- :guilabel:`Accounting Date`: the date on which the adjustments will be accounted in the Odoo
  *Accounting* app.
- :guilabel:`Company`: the company whose database these inventory adjustments are being made on. The
  company is listed in the top right corner of the database, next to the user currently logged in.

.. tip::
   Some columns are hidden by default. To reveal these columns, click the :guilabel:`additional
   options` button (three dots icon, at the top right of the header row), and select any desired

>    column to reveal by clicking the :guilabel:`checkbox` next to that option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   column to reveal by clicking the checkbox next to that option.
```

Add a new line
--------------

To create a new inventory adjustment from the :guilabel:`Inventory Adjustments` page, click
:guilabel:`Create`. Doing so creates a new, blank inventory adjustment line at the bottom of the
page.

On this blank inventory adjustment line, click the drop-down menu under the :guilabel:`Product`
column, and select a product from the drop-down menu. If the selected product is tracked using
either lots or serial numbers, the desired lot or serial number can also be chosen from the
drop-down menu under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` column.

Next, set the value in the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` column to the quantity counted for that
product during the inventory adjustment process.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` for new inventory adjustments is set to `0.00` by default. A

>    move with `0.00` :guilabel:`Quantity Done` will be recorded in the product's inventory adjustment
>    history, so it should be set to reflect the actual quantity counted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   move with `0.00` :guilabel:`Quantity Done` is recorded in the product's inventory adjustment
   history, so it should be set to reflect the actual quantity counted.
```

To the right of the :guilabel:`Counted Quality` column, the :guilabel:`Scheduled Date` and

> :guilabel:`User` can also be changed via their respective drop-down menus. Changing the scheduled
> date will change the date that the inventory adjustment should be processed on, and selecting a
> responsible user will assign a user to the specific inventory adjustment (for traceability
> purposes).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:guilabel:`User` can also be changed, via their respective drop-down menus. Changing the scheduled
date changes the date that the inventory adjustment should be processed on, and selecting a
responsible user assigns a user to the specific inventory adjustment (for traceability purposes).
```

Once all changes have been made to the new inventory adjustment line, click away from the line.

> Doing so will save the adjustment and move the line to the top of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Doing so saves the adjustment, and moves the line to the top of the page.
```
present tense

> If the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is greater than the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in
> the :guilabel:`Difference` column will be **green**. If the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is lesser
> than the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in the :guilabel:`Difference` column will be
> **red**. If the quantities match and haven't been changed at all, no value will appear in the
> :guilabel:`Difference` column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is greater than the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in
the :guilabel:`Difference` column is **green**. If the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is lesser
than the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in the :guilabel:`Difference` column is **red**.
If the quantities match, and haven't been changed at all, no value appears in the
:guilabel:`Difference` column.
```

.. image:: count_products/count-products-difference-column.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Difference column on inventory adjustments page.

> At this stage, the count (:dfn:`inventory adjustment`) is recorded, but not yet **applied**. This
> means that the quantity on hand before the adjustment has not yet been updated to match the new,
> real counted quantity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this stage, the count (:dfn:`inventory adjustment`) is recorded, but not yet applied. This means
the quantity on hand, before the adjustment, has not yet been updated to match the new, real
counted quantity.
```

There are two ways to apply the new inventory adjustment. The first way is to click the
:guilabel:`Apply` button on the line at the far right of the page. The second way is to click the

> :guilabel:`checkbox` on the far left of the line. Doing so reveals new button options at the top of
> the page, one of which is an :guilabel:`Apply` button. Clicking this button instead causes an
> :guilabel:`Inventory Adjustment Reference / Reason` pop-up to appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
checkbox on the far left of the line. Doing so reveals new button options at the top of the page,
one of which is an :guilabel:`Apply` button. Clicking this button instead causes an
:guilabel:`Inventory Adjustment Reference / Reason` pop-up to appear.
```

From this pop-up menu, a reference or reason can be assigned to the inventory adjustment. By

> default, this will be pre-populated with the date the adjustment is being made on, but can be
> changed to reflect whatever reference or reason is desired.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
default, this is pre-populated with the date the adjustment is being made on, but can be changed to
reflect whatever reference or reason is desired.
```

Once ready, click :guilabel:`Apply` to apply the inventory adjustment.

.. image:: count_products/count-products-apply-inventory-adjustment.png

>    :scale: 60%

Reviewer 2: No need to have this :scale: tag on a properly sized image, that being said, this image is too wide at 1215px wide. Please resize to be under 933px ideally 768 🙂
```suggestion
```

- :guilabel:`Product`: the product whose quantity is listed on the inventory adjustment line.
- :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`: the specific tracking identifier assigned to the specific product
  listed. It can contain letters, numbers, or a combination of both.

  .. note::
     If a specific product has a quantity of more than `1.00` in stock, and more than one serial
     number (or lot number) assigned to it, each uniquely-identified product is displayed on its own
     product line with its own lot/serial number, displayed under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`
     column.

- :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`: the quantity of the product currently recorded in the database.
- :guilabel:`UoM`: the *unit of measure* in which the product is measured. Unless otherwise
  specified (i.e., in :guilabel:`Pounds` or :guilabel:`Ounces`), the default :abbr:`UoM (unit of
  measure)` is :guilabel:`Units`.
- :guilabel:`Counted Quantity`: the real quantity counted during an inventory count. This field is
  left blank by default, but can be changed, depending on if it matches the :guilabel:`On Hand
  Quantity` or not.

> - :guilabel:`Difference`: the difference between the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity` and

Author: Yep! Good idea, added that in here 👍

- :guilabel:`Scheduled Date`: the date at which a count should be made. If not otherwise specified,
  this date will default to the 31st of December of the current year.
- :guilabel:`User`: the person assigned to the count in the database. This can either be the person
  physically counting the inventory, or applying the count in the database.
- :guilabel:`Product Category`: the category assigned internally to a specific product. Unless
  otherwise specified (i.e., as :guilabel:`Consumable` or :guilabel:`Rental`), the default *Product
  Category* is set to :guilabel:`All`.
- :guilabel:`Available Quantity`: the quantity of a specific product that is currently available,
  based on any outstanding/uncompleted sales orders, purchase orders, or manufacturing orders that
  might change the available quantity once fulfilled.
- :guilabel:`Accounting Date`: the date on which the adjustments will be accounted in the Odoo
  *Accounting* app.
- :guilabel:`Company`: the company whose database these inventory adjustments are being made on. The
  company is listed in the top right corner of the database, next to the user currently logged in.

.. tip::

>    Some columns are hidden by default. To reveal these columns, click the :guilabel:`additional
>    options` button (three dots icon, at the top right of the header row), and select any desired

Reviewer 2: button description formatting - I think this is a stylistic choice to describe the button rather than use the icon, and I think it works well but I feel like the parenthesis are only needed around the icon description. I am curious on @StraubCreative 's thoughts here 👇
```suggestion
   Some columns are hidden by default. To reveal these columns, click the :guilabel:`additional
   options` button (three dots icon) at the top right of the header row, and select any desired
```

   column to reveal by clicking the checkbox next to that option.

Add a new line
--------------

To create a new inventory adjustment from the :menuselection:`Inventory Adjustments` page, click
:guilabel:`Create`. Doing so creates a new, blank inventory adjustment line at the bottom of the
page.

On this blank inventory adjustment line, click the drop-down menu under the :guilabel:`Product`
column, and select a product from the drop-down menu. If the selected product is tracked using
either lots or serial numbers, the desired lot or serial number can also be chosen from the
drop-down menu under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` column.

Next, set the value in the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` column to the quantity counted for that
product during the inventory adjustment process.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` for new inventory adjustments is set to `0.00` by default. A

>    move with `0.00` :guilabel:`Quantity Done` is recorded in the product's inventory adjustment

Author: An "inventory move" of any kind. I see how that could be vague so I clarified!

the :guilabel:`Difference` column is **green**. If the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is lesser than
the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in the :guilabel:`Difference` column is **red**. If the
quantities match, and haven't been changed at all, no value appears in the :guilabel:`Difference`
column.

.. image:: count_products/count-products-difference-column.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Difference column on inventory adjustments page.

At this stage, the count (:dfn:`inventory adjustment`) is recorded, but not yet applied. This means
that the quantity on hand before the adjustment has not yet been updated to match the new, real
counted quantity.

There are two ways to apply the new inventory adjustment. The first way is to click the
:guilabel:`Apply` button on the line at the far right of the page. The second way is to click the
checkbox on the far left of the line. Doing so reveals new button options at the top of the page,
one of which is an :guilabel:`Apply` button. Clicking this button instead causes an
:guilabel:`Inventory Adjustment Reference / Reason` pop-up to appear.

From this pop-up menu, a reference or reason can be assigned to the inventory adjustment. By

> default, this is pre-populated with the date the adjustment is being made on, but can be changed to
> reflect whatever reference or reason is desired.

Reviewer 2: Adding the field as a guilabel for specificity
```suggestion
default, the :guilabel:`Inventory Reference / Reason` field is pre-populated with the date the
adjustment is being made on, but can be changed to reflect whatever reference or reason is desired.
```

Once ready, click :guilabel:`Apply` to apply the inventory adjustment.

.. image:: count_products/count-products-apply-inventory-adjustment.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Apply all option applies the inventory adjustment once a reason is specified.

Count products
==============

Counting products is a recurring activity in a warehouse. Once a count is complete, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Operations --> Inventory Adjustments` to update the
:guilabel:`Counted Quantity` column for each product line.

On each product line, identify whether the value in the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity` column recorded
in the database matches the newly-counted value. If the recorded value and the counted value do

> match, click the :guilabel:`Set` button (with the target icon, at the far right of the product
> line).

Reviewer 2: Button description formatting again
```suggestion
match, click the :guilabel:`Set` button (target icon) at the far right of the product line.
```

match the actual inventory counts in the warehouse. The discrepancy between the two counts can be
due to damages, human errors, theft, or other factors. As such, inventory adjustments must be made
to reconcile the differences, and ensure that the recorded counts in the database match the actual
counts in the warehouse.

Inventory Adjustments page
==========================

To view the *Inventory Adjustments* page, navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Operations
--> Inventory Adjustments`.

.. image:: count_products/count-products-inventory-adjustments-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: In stock products listed on the Inventory adjustments page.

On the :menuselection:`Inventory Adjustments` page, all products that are currently in stock are
listed, with each product line containing the following information:

- :guilabel:`Location`: the specific location in the warehouse where a product is stored.
- :guilabel:`Product`: the product whose quantity is listed on the inventory adjustment line.
- :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`: the tracking identifier assigned to the specific product listed. It
  can contain letters, numbers, or a combination of both.

> .. note::

Reviewer 2: Yes, that is correct:
```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`: the tracking identifier assigned to the specific product listed. It
  can contain letters, numbers, or a combination of both.

  .. note::
     If a specific product has a quantity of more than `1.00` in stock, and more than one serial
     number (or lot number) assigned to it, each uniquely-identified product is displayed on its own
     product line with its own lot/serial number, displayed under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`
     column.
```

To the right of the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` column, the :guilabel:`Scheduled Date` and
:guilabel:`User` can also be changed via their respective drop-down menus. Changing the
:guilabel:`Scheduled Date` changes the date that the inventory adjustment should be processed on,
and selecting a responsible :guilabel:`User` assigns a user to the specific inventory adjustment
(for traceability purposes).

Once all changes have been made to the new inventory adjustment line, click away from the line.
Doing so saves the adjustment, and moves the line to the top of the page.

If the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is greater than the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in
the :guilabel:`Difference` column is **green**. If the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is less than the
:guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in the :guilabel:`Difference` column is **red**. If the
quantities match, and haven't been changed at all, no value appears in the :guilabel:`Difference`
column.

.. image:: count_products/count-products-difference-column.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Difference column on inventory adjustments page.

> At this stage, the count (:dfn:`inventory adjustment`) is recorded, but not yet applied. This means

Reviewer 2: Hi @StraubCreative this tag is actually behaving correctly, although I do agree with how you explained the expected behavior, that would make more sense IMO. The Sphinx documentation shows the same syntax for the `:dfn:` tag. I can explore the hover functionality 🙂

<img width="953" alt="Screenshot 2023-08-08 at 9 44 57 AM" src="https://github.com/odoo/documentation/assets/36018073/81da32bf-28ab-489f-8623-8d9598789d28">

To modify the default scheduled date, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration -->
Settings`. Then, in the :guilabel:`Operations` section, locate the :guilabel:`Annual Inventory Day
and Month` setting, which includes a drop-down menu that is set to `31 December` by default.

.. image:: count_products/count-products-annual-inventory.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Adjust the next inventory count date with the Annual Inventory Day and Month setting.

To change the day, click the :guilabel:`31`, and change it to a day within the range `1-31`,
depending on the desired month of the year.

Then, to change the month, click :guilabel:`December` to reveal the drop-down menu, and select the
desired month.

Once all desired changes have been made, click :guilabel:`Save` to save all changes.

Plan big inventory counts
-------------------------

To plan big inventory counts, such as a full count of everything currently in stock, first navigate
to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Operations --> Inventory Adjustments`.

Then, select the desired products to be counted by clicking the checkbox on the far left of each
product line.

.. tip::

>    To request a count of **all** products currently in stock, click the checkbox at the very top,
>    next to :guilabel:`Location` in the header row. This selects **all** product lines.

Reviewer 3: suggestion (clarity)
```suggestion
   To request a count of **all** products currently in stock, click the checkbox at the very top of
   the table, in the header row next to :guilabel:`Location` label. This selects **all** product
   lines.
```

> to reconcile the differences, and ensure that the recorded counts in the database match the actual

Reviewer 4: Very minor, but I would put theft at the end of the list, since it's the most negative : due to damages, human errors, theft, or other factors. Just feels "nicer"

Author: Makes sense to me!

counts in the warehouse.

View inventory adjustments page
===============================

To view the :guilabel:`Inventory Adjustments` page, navigate to :menuselection:`Inventory app -->
Operations --> Inventory Adjustments`.

On the :guilabel:`Inventory Adjustments` page, all products that are currently in stock are listed,
with each product line containing the following information:

.. image:: count_products/count-products-inventory-adjustments-page.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Inventory adjustments page.

- :guilabel:`Location`: is the specific location in the warheouse where a product is stored.
- :guilabel:`Product`: is the product whose quantity is listed on the inventory adjustment line.
- :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number`: is the specific tracking identifier assigned to the specific

>   product listed. It can contain letters, numbers, or a combination of both.

Reviewer 4: if there are many different SN's for one product, are they listed each in their own line? If so, maybe having a note to specify that or explain that might be helpful.

Author: Good note, I hadn't even thought of that! Turns out each SN will show up on its own product line. Added a note in to show that!

- :guilabel:`Scheduled Date`: is the date at which a count should be made. If not otherwise
  specified, this date will default to the 31st of December of the current year.
- :guilabel:`User`: is the person assigned to the count in the database. This can either be the
  person physically counting the inventory, or applying the count in the database.
- :guilabel:`Product Category`: is the category assigned internally to a specific product. Unless
  otherwise specified (i.e., as **Consumable** or **Rental**), the default *product category* will
  be *All*.
- :guilabel:`Available Quantity`: is the quantity of a specific product that is currently
  available, based on any outstanding/uncompleted sales orders, purchase orders, or manufacturing
  orders that might change the available quantity once fulfilled.
- :guilabel:`Accounting Date`: is the date on which the adjustments will be accounted in the Odoo
  *Accounting* app.
- :guilabel:`Company`: is the company whose database these inventory adjustments are being made on.
  The company is listed in the top right corner of the database, next to the user currently logged
  in.

> 

Author: I think that it'll be listed differently for different users depending on which columns they choose to display and which settings they have activated, so I just listed them all in case they are looking for any given one

column, and select a product from the drop-down menu. If the selected product is tracked using
either lots or serial numbers, the desired lot or serial number can also be chosen from the
drop-down menu under the :guilabel:`Lot/Serial Number` column.

Next, set the value in the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` column to the quantity counted for that
product during the inventory adjustment process.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` for new inventory adjustments is set to `0.00` by default. A
   move with `0.00` :guilabel:`Quantity Done` will be recorded in the product's inventory
   adjustment history, so it should be set to reflect the actual quantity counted.

To the right of the :guilabel:`Counted Quality` column, the :guilabel:`Scheduled Date` and
:guilabel:`User` can also be changed via their respective drop-down menus. Changing the scheduled
date will change the date that the inventory adjustment should be processed on, and selecting a
responsible user will assign a user to the specific inventory adjustment (for traceability
purposes).

Once all changes have been made to the new inventory adjustment line, click away from the line.

> Doing so will save the adjustment and move the line to the top of the page.

Reviewer 4: As I am thinking about this further- maybe it would be good to explain that you cna have a line listed for each product in each location. That ight not be intuitive? I made the pedal bin in the above example, but it was set to be in Input, not in the WH- so that is why i thought of that.

:guilabel:`Difference` column.

If the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is greater than the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in
the :guilabel:`Difference` column will be **green**. If the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is lesser
than the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in the :guilabel:`Difference` column will be
**red**. If the quantities match and haven't been changed at all, no value will appear in the
:guilabel:`Difference` column.

Subsequently, once applied, a move with the difference between the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity` and
the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` will be recorded in the product's inventory adjustment history.

.. image:: count_products/count-products-history-inventory-adjustments.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Inventory Adjustments History dashboard detailing a list of prior product moves.

.. important::
   Sometimes a count occurs, but can not be applied in the database right away. In the time between
   the actual count and applying the inventory adjustment, product moves can occur. In that case,
   the on hand quantity in the database can change and will not be consistent with the counted

>    quantity. As an extra caution measure, Odoo will ask for confirmation before applying the

Author: That does sound a lot better, thank you

   inventory adjustment.

Change inventory count frequency
================================

By default, the *scheduled date* for inventory adjustments are always scheduled for the 31st of
December of the current year (:dfn:`12/31/2023` in the database). However, for some companies, it
is crucial that they have an accurate inventory count at all times. In such cases, the default
scheduled date can be modified.

To modify the default scheduled date, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration -->
Settings`, and scroll to the :guilabel:`Operations` section. Locate the :guilabel:`Annual Inventory
Day and Month` setting field, which includes a drop-down that is set to `31 December` by default.

.. image:: count_products/count-products-annual-inventory.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Adjust the next inventory count date with the Annual Inventory Day and Month setting.

> To change the day, click :guilabel:`31`, and change it to a day within range `1-31`, depending on

Reviewer 4: might want to specify that you type in the numbers, it's not a drop-down like the month?

the desired month of the year.

Then, to change the month, click :guilabel:`December` to reveal the drop-down menu, and select the

> desired month.

Reviewer 4: Is there a way to have this be more than one day? For example, quarterly. It doesn't seem so, maybe you can mention that if that's the case/is needed- they can go in and keep updating this date? Just a thought. I am wondering how companies who need to do this quarterly, monthly, etc. can achieve this easier.

Author: You can change the frequency to be more frequent for individual locations on the location level, but not for all stock on the db level. Think this is better explained at length in the Cycle count doc, which is up next for me. Can add a link to it at the bottom of this doc!

==============

Counting products is a recurring activity in a warehouse. Once a count is complete, go to
:menuselection:`Inventory app --> Operations --> Inventory Adjustments` to update the
:guilabel:`Counted Quantity` column for each product line.

On each product line, identify whether the value in the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity` column recorded
in the database matches the newly-counted value. If the recorded value and the counted value do
match, click the :guilabel:`Set` button (with the target icon, at the far right of the product
line).

Doing so copies the value from the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity` column over to the
:guilabel:`Counted Quantity` column, and sets the value of the :guilabel:`Difference` column to

> `0.00`. Subsequently, once applied, a move with `0.00` :guilabel:`Quantity Done` will be recorded in
> the product's inventory adjustment history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`0.00`. Subsequently, once applied, a move with `0.00` :guilabel:`Quantity Done` is recorded in the
product's inventory adjustment history.
```

.. image:: count_products/count-products-zero-move.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Zero count inventory adjustment move.

If the newly-counted value for a given product does **not** match the value in the :guilabel:`On
Hand Quantity` recorded in the database, instead of clicking the :guilabel:`Set` button, record the
real value in the field in the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` column.

To do so, click the field in the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` column on the specific inventory

> adjustment line for the product whose count is being changed. This will automatically assign a
> :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` of `0.00`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
adjustment line for the product whose count is being changed. This automatically assigns a
:guilabel:`Counted Quantity` of `0.00`.
```

To change this value, type in a new value that matches the real, newly-counted value. Then, click

> away from the line. Doing so will save the adjustment, and automatically adjust the value in the
> :guilabel:`Difference` column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
away from the line. Doing so saves the adjustment, and automatically adjusts the value in the
:guilabel:`Difference` column.
```

If the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is greater than the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in

> the :guilabel:`Difference` column will be **green**. If the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is lesser
> than the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in the :guilabel:`Difference` column will be
> **red**. If the quantities match and haven't been changed at all, no value will appear in the
> :guilabel:`Difference` column.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the :guilabel:`Difference` column is **green**. If the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is lesser than
the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity`, the value in the :guilabel:`Difference` column is **red**. If the
quantities match, and haven't been changed at all, no value appears in the :guilabel:`Difference`
column.
```

Subsequently, once applied, a move with the difference between the :guilabel:`On Hand Quantity` and

> the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` will be recorded in the product's inventory adjustment history.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the :guilabel:`Counted Quantity` is recorded in the product's inventory adjustment history.
```

.. image:: count_products/count-products-history-inventory-adjustments.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Inventory Adjustments History dashboard detailing a list of prior product moves.

.. important::
   Sometimes a count occurs, but can not be applied in the database right away. In the time between
   the actual count and applying the inventory adjustment, product moves can occur. In that case,

>    the on hand quantity in the database can change and will not be consistent with the counted
>    quantity. As an extra precaution, Odoo will ask for confirmation before applying the inventory
>    adjustment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   the on-hand quantity in the database can change, and is not consistent with the counted
   quantity. As an extra precaution, Odoo asks for confirmation before applying the inventory
   adjustment.
```

inventory count at all times. In such cases, the default scheduled date can be modified.

To modify the default scheduled date, go to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Configuration -->
Settings`. Then, in the :guilabel:`Operations` section, locate the :guilabel:`Annual Inventory Day
and Month` setting field, which includes a drop-down that is set to `31 December` by default.

.. image:: count_products/count-products-annual-inventory.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Adjust the next inventory count date with the Annual Inventory Day and Month setting.

To change the day, click the :guilabel:`31`, and change it to a day within the range `1-31`,
depending on the desired month of the year.

Then, to change the month, click :guilabel:`December` to reveal the drop-down menu, and select the
desired month.

Once all desired changes have been made, click :guilabel:`Save` to save all changes.

Plan big inventory counts
-------------------------

To plan big inventory counts, such as a full count of everything currently in stock, first navigate
to :menuselection:`Inventory app --> Operations --> Inventory Adjustments`.

> Then, select the desired products to be counted by clicking the :guilabel:`checkbox` on the far left
> of each product line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, select the desired products to be counted by clicking the checkbox on the far left of each
product line.
```

.. tip::

>    To request a count of **all** products currently in stock, click the :guilabel:`checkbox` at the
>    very top, next to :guilabel:`Location` in the header row. This selects **all** product lines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To request a count of **all** products currently in stock, click the checkbox at the very top,
   next to :guilabel:`Location` in the header row. This selects **all** product lines.
```

Once all desired products have been selected, click the :guilabel:`Request A Count` button at the
top of the page. This causes a :guilabel:`Request a Count` pop-up to appear. From this pop-up, fill
in the following information:

.. image:: count_products/count-products-count-popup.png
   :align: center
   :alt: Request a count popup on inventory adjustments page.

- :guilabel:`Inventory Date`: the planned date of the count.
- :guilabel:`User`: the user responsible for the count.
- :guilabel:`Accounting Date`: the date at which the inventory adjustment will be accounted.

> - :guilabel:`Count`: to leave the on hand quantity of each product line blank, select
>   :guilabel:`Leave Empty`. To prefill the on hand quantity of each product line with the current
>   value recorded in the database, select :guilabel:`Set Current Value`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Count`: to leave the on-hand quantity of each product line blank, select
  :guilabel:`Leave Empty`. To prefill the on-hand quantity of each product line with the current
  value recorded in the database, select :guilabel:`Set Current Value`.
```

Finally, once ready, click :guilabel:`Confirm` to request the count.

.. important::

>    In the Odoo *Barcode* app, users can only view inventory counts that are assigned to **them**,
>    and that are scheduled for **today** or **earlier**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In the Odoo *Barcode* app, users can only view inventory counts that are assigned to them, and
   are scheduled for today (or earlier).
```
